- fast forwards to the darkness
[Music]
[Applause]
welcome to slash forward the channel
where we provide summarization and
commentary and all your favorite popular
and obscure horror movies in this video
we're gonna run through the 2012 film
grabbers this is a quaint little film
about an alien invasion that takes place
on a sleepy little irish island village
it saw a limited release in the foreign
market so isn't necessarily well known
it is certainly underrated not unlike
attacked the block this movie is a
science fiction horror mashup with
elements of comedy it uses effective
plot devices in cinematography to
squeeze as much out of their limited
effects budget as possible let's take a
look at how it all came together the
movie opens on an object careening
toward the earth it happens to land
close to a nearby fishing vessel the
longshoremen filled with the sense of
awe and childlike wonder at the
boundless majesty of our universe set
off to explore the strange new mystery
the skipper smartly calls it in for
safety which also ensures for plot
purposes that the local authorities are
aware of a possible disturbance as they
approach the deckhand attempts to
observe any signs of unusual activity
but fails to see anything until he does
he gets pulled into the water and we
come to recognize that the plummeting
object was more than a mere rock or a
bit of space debris whatever the
creature is it manages to make short
work of the rest of the crew spearing
the skipper and then penetrating the
final seaman from above however not
before he gets a good look at the alien
and provides a reaction to give us a
sense of scale we however do not get to
see it yet a prime example of building
suspense and budgeting those euros by
setting the scene in darkness and
revealing very little this brings us to
a quiet sunny morning on Aran Island
where we get a montage introducing the
two main protagonists of the movie no
Linda no Shane O'Shea is a disheveled
local Islander and part of the island
police force Nolan is a bright-eyed
recruit arriving for her first day and
ready to take on all challenges what a
positively odd pair they meet up at the
police station to get their orders
O'Shea flirts with Nolan by being a huge
arse know what kind calves I'll just
take a black thanks so you can have my
disc when I'm done okay here you could
have the island even for the show and
done Gary and B come to find out that
the chief is on holiday and Nolan is
there to fill in for the next couple of
weeks meanwhile one of the local
fishermen patty finds something strange
in his lobster trap again we don't get
to see what it is but we do get to see
what it does when it expertly squirts of
fluid upon the
origin right into his face unu has gone
to do that but how as you said there's
no effective mobster we then cut back to
a Shane Nolan with a bit of
foreshadowing neither relax there's none
of that here
you never know it's always the quiet
places where the mad [ __ ] happens where
they are responding to a report of a
cetacean stranding only this doesn't
appear to be a navigational accident
these wheels are missing chunks we meet
Smith the island marine psychologist who
is examining the carcasses he's
immediately smitten with Noland and
demonstrates his charms with a display
of his athletic prowess and some awkward
touching they head back to the car where
O'Shea demonstrates his own charms with
some very witty jokes lots of thought
what is that awesome it's a hand in a
claw position it's a dead one of those
it doesn't land unfortunately so he does
the only reasonable thing it keeps at it
repeatedly they head out to daily scrap
yard where O'Shea calls in a favor by
having him uses heavy equipment to
remove the whales from the beach when
Daly sends an employee back to pick up a
shovel we get our first evidence that
the aliens have not only made it to the
island but are likely screwing on the
beaches there are eggs of plenty and
this poor soul gets dragged out to sea
unfortunately for him no one cares
although I'm not sure they would've been
able to do anything regardless we Reeve
his attack Murphy the poor victim of the
previous squirting incident watching TV
and relaxing hardcore when he hears a
knock at the door he goes to check it
out and sees Declan Cooney on his
doorstep as a fact he goes ahead and
opens the door and we get a very cool
shot that ultimately reveals Declan is
actually a corpse being manipulated at
the end of an appendage like a giant
anglerfish attracting its prey into the
open to make it vulnerable what does he
want
the dance the alien makes short work of
the couple noisily dispatching him on
the roof and then grabbing her when she
attempts to close the flue meanwhile of
Shay and Nolan continue to develop their
relationship as a Shay shows off his
intellectual prowess which is only
enhanced under the influence of alcohol
say the alphabet backwards for me and
while paddy Don's a welding mask to go
check out his new pet but it's gone oh
there it is Pattie promptly puts the
boots to it and gets the [ __ ] out of
there the next morning finds the main
cast grouping up at Smith's lab to check
out Paddy's new pet we are introduced to
a colloquial test to verify the
aliveness of a specimen dead the
examination reveals the creature likely
survives by consuming blood and is a
female how can it have well it's got no
testicles and she was pregnant
O'Shea and Nolan doing some
investigating end up at declan's house
and through careful deduction and
painstaking observation are able to find
subtle hints of a prior struggle on the
roof now fully understanding the
significance of the problems they're
facing they get down to business and try
to develop a plan to rid themselves with
the aliens making some assumptions about
its behavior based on tides and sighting
locations they come up with the best
approximation of where they anticipate
the creatures showing up they explore
the area and find some eggs then they
find the male proving to be much larger
and scarier than the specimen they
curb-stomped in Smith's lab they managed
to escape the cave from an opening that
was luckily too small for the creature
the kangaroo that guy I'd recommend you
continue leaving they head straight back
to Smith's lab to ensure his version
never grows up in the process they
realized the big one is likely looking
for their specimen so they armed
themselves luckily nothing happens
though and they start to piece things
together the creatures are very durable
paddy likely survived due to his blood
alcohol content indicating they are
allergic to alcohol and if the creatures
are able to move effectively on land
when the waters allowed through rising
tides of rain unfortunately an impending
storm allow the creatures full run of
the island while also preventing the
Islanders from being able to reach or
get help from the mainland the group
devises a test in which they take Lisa
the purest of blood and get her drunk
until it registers an effect on the
specimen in the process we're treating
some great drunk acting by the actress
playing Nolan hey ever likes me as much
that's based on the results of the test
they decide that they could protect the
population by keeping everyone together
and ensuring they're all drunk enough to
effectively make themselves poisonous to
the aliens now they just need to
convince the Townsville to come to the
bar and a free bar and get them drunk
enough to keep them safe without causing
a full-on panic by making them aware of
the danger in which they find themselves
now at the bar of the group prepares by
taking an inventory of their weapons I
have an angel and a board
with a name in it and making a patrol
plan which O'Shea has volunteered to
oversee requiring him to remain
painfully sober as a party gears up
paddy finds himself unable to keep a
reveler in sight due to a lack of
bathrooms and his overwhelming urge to
pee we get a cool POV shot at something
creepin up on the air and pisser who
turns around to find a squadron of
hatchlings behind him they don't appear
to pose any danger though Oh scratch
that with some help they managed to
detach the baby but then find themselves
face to face with the big n' in a scene
that is very well constructed the rain
helps obscure any imperfections in the
CGI making it easier to get drawn in and
the angle of the shot and openness of
the scene give the audience a very
visceral idea of what it would feel like
to be vulnerably exposed in such an
openly dangerous situation meanwhile our
full-bladder traveler gets at with his
head being the only part left despite
the fact that I went in first as O'Shea
and Nolan head back inside we now find
the severe downside to their plan as the
group attempts to spring into action
despite their prodigious impairment
Brian manages to pull it together and
charge outside but immediately comes to
realize the futility of his actions and
hauls arse back indoors while discussing
the next steps they let slip in front of
a larger audience that there may be some
danger and that something outside is
trying to kill them as they address this
Smith manages to slip out and hit on the
main grabber
thinking that due to his phenomenal and
drunkenness he's safe from harm
[Music]
well yes not the group outside comes
clean with the general population and
they all agree to move the party
upstairs they ultimately decide that the
big one must be attracted to the scent
of the female no Shea's got that stank
all over them the new plan is to get the
keys to the truck outside and lure the
creature out to a construction site
where they can use the heavy equipment
to string it up keeping it under control
and causing it to dry out when the rain
stops like all of their other drunken
plans this one falls apart in the
execution phase we end up with Nolan
driving the truck with O'Shea sitting in
the back attracting the bull with that
sweet sweet musk when they get to the
construction site the creature proves to
be smarter than they thought
declining to be lured into their trap
but they still managed to at least pin
it down under a bulldozer poison it with
Paddy's homebrew and then blow it up
with a flare gun and some fuel barrels
such a hoe
we in with the sunrises everyone takes a
breather from the evening festivities no
shake casually discusses adopting his
dead friend's dog I think we should go
and pick up Jim's dog there now free to
focus on the future securing the fact
that they have eliminated the threat and
can welcome back that easygoing Island
life oh right
overall this is a very worthwhile movie
that I recommend as I was thinking of
the things they did well I realized that
it basically overlaps with all the
positive attributes I had for attack the
block good use of a limited budget
keeping the monster hidden initially and
using plot devices in a way that
required when the monsters are
eventually shown that it be obscured in
some way it's a great way to do a lot
with the limited budget taking that one
step further I realized also that both
movies involve aliens coming to Earth in
a meteorite presenting themselves to a
small local population having one female
that lets off pheromones the male
counterparts are attracted to which also
gets on the main characters clothes etc
hey what the hell giving them the
benefit of the doubt I have to say the
similarities don't distract from the
overall experience the films are
different enough in the settings details
and characters that it doesn't distract
from the strong points of either film
both were excellent in their own right
they can come highly recommended so
that's it for grabbers I hope you
enjoyed the video and thank you for
watching
[Music]